readme.md, before:

# Rust Playground

Rust Playground is an isolated environment for building, testing, and playing around with rust. With environment
preconfigured, writing code is simply starting the container, and connect your vs code to the created tunnel. We may
clean up the sandbox after tinkering with just one command, and it will be reseated and be ready for next code.

## Installation

To get started, docker is required to be installed on the host machine that we planed to host it on. Then, follow the
following steps to spin up the container. And a GitHub account is required to connect the tunnel to the cloud so we can
access it.

1. Clone this repo into your machine and cd into it.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kelvinchin12070811/rust-playground
cd rust-playground
```

2. Build the docker image.

```bash
docker build .
```

We may also give it a tag for easy to maintain later (Recommended).

```bash
docker build -t <your name>/rust-playground
```

3. Run the docker image.

Once the image has build, we can then spin up the image as bellow:

Bash/ zsh:

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h <name you want the vs code tunnel be> /
--volume "<local playground>:/home/playground" /
--volume "<vs code binary data>:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "<vs code server data>:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name <name for the container> /
<your github username>/rust-playground:latest
```

example:

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h rust-playground /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name rust-playground /
bob1234/rust-playground:latest
```

For Windows host and powershell:

```powershell
docker run `
-d `
-h rust-playground `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" `
--name rust-playground `
bob1234/rust-playground
```

This will require 3 docker volumes to store the following data:

- Playground workspace - The main location to store your code and will be wiped when called.
- .vscode folder - This is where the server version of vs code will be installed, also with the tunnel authentication
  token.
- .vscode-server - This is the folder where vs code used to store the server side data such as extensions.

To enable reset feature, set the environment variable `FEATURE_RESET` as following:

Bash/ zsh

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h rust-playground /
-e FEATURE_RESET=1 /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name rust-playground /
bob1234/rust-playground:latest
```

For Windows host and powershell:

```powershell
docker run `
-d `
-h rust-playground `
-e FEATURE_RESET=1 `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" `
--name rust-playground `
bob1234/rust-playground
```

4. Authenticate the tunnel for first time use

Once the container is started, we will need to authorize the tunnel to allow it to be accessed from the vs code or
remotely from [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev).

We first tail the docker log to get the auth link generated by the vscode cli tool.

```bash
docker logs -n 50 your-container-tunnel
```

We will get the following:

```
*
* Visual Studio Code Server
*
* By using the software, you agree to
* the Visual Studio Code Server License Terms (https://aka.ms/vscode-server-license) and
* the Microsoft Privacy Statement (https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-US/privacystatement).
*
To grant access to the server, please log into https://github.com/login/device and use code ****-****
```

Follow the instruction on the screen and login to the given link, we will need to login to our github account and
authorize the connection.

Once again, run the following command again:

```bash
docker logs -n 50 your-container-tunnel
```

We will get output as bellow:

```
[2023-01-01 05:20:30] info Creating tunnel with the name: <the-assigned-name-of-your-tunnel>

Open this link in your browser https://vscode.dev/tunnel/<the-assigned-name-of-your-tunnel>
```

Now we can access to the tunnel via the link given. We can also able to access the tunnel via vs code's remote
development extension or from [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev). Login to the same github account on prompt and we are
ready to rock it.

## Usage

The folder we going to write our rust code is at `/home/playground`. If you are not in this directory, you can use the
`hop` command to quickly jump into that folder. There's also a `code-hop` command which will launch new vs code on the
playground directory.

Once finished with the mock, `reset` command helps to clean up the playground and restore it to initial state. This is
a dangerous command so please backup any things that might be needed after. This command is by default disabled but can
be enabled with the environment variable `FEATURE_RESET`.

Bellow is a list of custom commands that may come into help:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Command</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>hop</td>
        <td>Quickly jump to the playground folder.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>code-hop</td>
        <td>Open new VS Code Window (or tab if on vscode.dev) in the playground folder.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>cls</td>
        <td>Alias to clear, just to save a few typing.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>reset</td>
        <td>
            Default disabled, reset the playground folder to initial state. Can be enabled by setting the environment
            variable <code>FEATURE_RESET</code> to <code>1</code>.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>about</td>
        <td>Nothing fancy, just prints the about text.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Credit

This container did get some reference from the article
[Run VS Code Remote Tunnels in a container](https://dev.to/codingalex/run-vs-code-remote-tunnels-in-a-container-4lf4)
by Anh Dang on setting up the vs code cli in the container. You may refer to the article on the details on how to setup
a container with vscode tunnel.

Commit message:

Updated readme with update instruction

readme.md, after:

# Rust Playground

Rust Playground is an isolated environment for building, testing, and playing around with rust. With environment
preconfigured, writing code is simply starting the container, and connect your vs code to the created tunnel. We may
clean up the sandbox after tinkering with just one command, and it will be reseated and be ready for next code.

## Installation

To get started, docker is required to be installed on the host machine that we planed to host it on. Then, follow the
following steps to spin up the container. And a GitHub account is required to connect the tunnel to the cloud so we can
access it.

1. Clone this repo into your machine and cd into it.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kelvinchin12070811/rust-playground
cd rust-playground
```

2. Build the docker image.

```bash
docker build .
```

We may also give it a tag for easy to maintain later (Recommended).

```bash
docker build -t <your name>/rust-playground
```

3. Run the docker image.

Once the image has build, we can then spin up the image as bellow:

Bash/ zsh:

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h <name you want the vs code tunnel be> /
--volume "<local playground>:/home/playground" /
--volume "<vs code binary data>:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "<vs code server data>:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name <name for the container> /
<your github username>/rust-playground:latest
```

example:

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h rust-playground /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name rust-playground /
bob1234/rust-playground:latest
```

For Windows host and powershell:

```powershell
docker run `
-d `
-h rust-playground `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" `
--name rust-playground `
bob1234/rust-playground
```

This will require 3 docker volumes to store the following data:

- Playground workspace - The main location to store your code and will be wiped when called.
- .vscode folder - This is where the server version of vs code will be installed, also with the tunnel authentication
  token.
- .vscode-server - This is the folder where vs code used to store the server side data such as extensions.

To enable reset feature, set the environment variable `FEATURE_RESET` as following:

Bash/ zsh

```bash
docker run /
-d /
-h rust-playground /
-e FEATURE_RESET=1 /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" /
--volume "~/documents/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" /
--name rust-playground /
bob1234/rust-playground:latest
```

For Windows host and powershell:

```powershell
docker run `
-d `
-h rust-playground `
-e FEATURE_RESET=1 `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/playground:/home/playground" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode:/root/.vscode" `
--volume "C:/rust-playground/.vscode-server:/root/.vscode-server" `
--name rust-playground `
bob1234/rust-playground
```

4. Authenticate the tunnel for first time use

Once the container is started, we will need to authorize the tunnel to allow it to be accessed from the vs code or
remotely from [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev).

We first tail the docker log to get the auth link generated by the vscode cli tool.

```bash
docker logs -n 50 your-container-tunnel
```

We will get the following:

```
*
* Visual Studio Code Server
*
* By using the software, you agree to
* the Visual Studio Code Server License Terms (https://aka.ms/vscode-server-license) and
* the Microsoft Privacy Statement (https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-US/privacystatement).
*
To grant access to the server, please log into https://github.com/login/device and use code ****-****
```

Follow the instruction on the screen and login to the given link, we will need to login to our github account and
authorize the connection.

Once again, run the following command again:

```bash
docker logs -n 50 your-container-tunnel
```

We will get output as bellow:

```
[2023-01-01 05:20:30] info Creating tunnel with the name: <the-assigned-name-of-your-tunnel>

Open this link in your browser https://vscode.dev/tunnel/<the-assigned-name-of-your-tunnel>
```

Now we can access to the tunnel via the link given. We can also able to access the tunnel via vs code's remote
development extension or from [vscode.dev](https://vscode.dev). Login to the same github account on prompt and we are
ready to rock it.

As the docker file pull the rust image via the latest tag, to update the rust version, simply rebuild the image and
redeploy it. VS Code cli should updated by it self when needed.

## Usage

The folder we going to write our rust code is at `/home/playground`. If you are not in this directory, you can use the
`hop` command to quickly jump into that folder. There's also a `code-hop` command which will launch new vs code on the
playground directory.

Once finished with the mock, `reset` command helps to clean up the playground and restore it to initial state. This is
a dangerous command so please backup any things that might be needed after. This command is by default disabled but can
be enabled with the environment variable `FEATURE_RESET`.

Bellow is a list of custom commands that may come into help:

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Command</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>hop</td>
        <td>Quickly jump to the playground folder.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>code-hop</td>
        <td>Open new VS Code Window (or tab if on vscode.dev) in the playground folder.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>cls</td>
        <td>Alias to clear, just to save a few typing.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>reset</td>
        <td>
            Default disabled, reset the playground folder to initial state. Can be enabled by setting the environment
            variable <code>FEATURE_RESET</code> to <code>1</code>.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>about</td>
        <td>Nothing fancy, just prints the about text.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Credit

This container did get some reference from the article
[Run VS Code Remote Tunnels in a container](https://dev.to/codingalex/run-vs-code-remote-tunnels-in-a-container-4lf4)
by Anh Dang on setting up the vs code cli in the container. You may refer to the article on the details on how to setup
a container with vscode tunnel.
